new aiops doc (#10619)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/incident-workflows/alerts-classic-vs-workflows.mdx

---
title: Notification migration 
metaDescription: Migrating notifications from alerts and applied intelligence 
redirects: 
---

> At the end of January 2023, the classic notification system for alerts and applied intelligence will be deprecated and we will be implementing the use of workflows instead. This is good news because workflows is an improved, flexible notification system that helps your team learn about potential errors faster so you can take immediate action.

Reviewer: Let's drop the exact date from the opening.  It should probably move it to a new section about the automated migration above the template.
```suggestion
The classic notification system for alerts and applied intelligence is being replaced by workflows. This is good news because workflows is an improved, flexible notification system that helps your team learn about potential errors faster so you can take immediate action.
```

That second sentence may need to be reworked to emphasize the flexibility, number of integrations and correlations across issues, since technically workflows is slower due to the grace period to try and correlate more.

What does [this migration](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/plan-to-upgrade-alert-notification-channels-to-workflows-and-destinations/188205) mean for your team? In our previous notification model, your team would create an alert condition with different thresholds and parameters. If that condition was associated with a specific policy, was violated, and you wanted your team to know about it right away, you would add **notification settings**. Our notification settings would tell New Relic what data to send where.  

Now, we've added workflows. Workflows are flexible and they don't bind your notification options or your ability to organize alert conditions into polices. For example, you can filter your workflows by a team tag, or check for a "priority" to route issues to the most appropriate destination.

> ## Configuring custom payloads [#configure-custom-payloads]

Reviewer: At this point, the reader knows there's a need to move to workflows, but not what they need to do.  It seems like theres a section missing about the migration.

The following data needs to be conveyed somehow:
1. New Relic will automatically migrate accounts from January 9-31 2023
2. New Relic can migrate accounts earlier, just reach out to your account team
3. Consumers can avoid the automated migration by removing channels from policies

It's probably also important to explain what the migration actually does.  It creates a Destination for each Classic Notification Channel and connects them to Workflows created for each Policy.  Only policies with channel associations will be migrated.

The upgrade is accompanied by UI and API changes.  Notification may look slightly different, but should be consistent enough to not break existing integrations.

Reviewer: Maybe also add a link to https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/incident-workflows/incident-workflows/.  It does a good job explaining what workflows and issues.

Reviewer: Notification changes:
- All _url attribute values will change and lead to issue based pages, not incident based pages.
- condition_id will now always have the same value as condition_family_id.
- issue_id has been added.  Consumers should switch all integrations to using the issue_id instead of the incident_id, as the incident_id may be removed at some point.
- radar_entity.entityGuid and targets[0].id will be an entity guid when one is available for all types except for Webhooks
- targets[0].labels will contain all tags from the issue, not just the tags for the entity defined by the target.
- targets[0].link and violation_callback_url will lead to the issue page.
- open_violations_count.critical will contain the count of all open incidents across all priorities.  Priority specific counts are unavailable.
- open_violations_count.warning will always be 0.  Priority specific counts are unavailable.
- closed_violations_count.critical will contain the count of all closed incidents across all priorities.  Priority specific counts are unavailable.
- closed_violations_count.warning will always be 0.  Priority specific counts are unavailable.
- owner will have a value of NA if the issue has not been acknowledged

> To move from notifications to workflows your team might need to make some tweaks to your custom payloads. Workflows still function in the same way as notifications in that, when a condition is violated then a notification is sent to a webhook and when it is sent, it goes with its custom payload. The migration from notification channels to workflows requires changing some of the terminology in this payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When moving from notification channels to workflows your team may want to make some tweaks to your custom payloads. Workflows still function in the same way as notifications in that, when a condition is violated then a notification is sent to a webhook and when it is sent, it goes with its custom payload. The migration from notification channels to workflows requires changing some of the terminology in this payload.
```

The following table provides a translation between what the webhook payload names used in our classic notification system and their new, corresponding names in the issue payload.  

For many keys, the issue payload may contain a list of values.

<table>

  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        **Alerts (classic) Name**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Alerts (classic) Variable**

>       </th>

Reviewer: These are documented [here](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/advanced-alerts/advanced-techniques/customize-your-webhook-payload/) if you want to provide the link and reclaim the space and make it more consumable for the average viewer.   The Alerts (classic) name is close enough for most readers to understand and can be used as the key to look up the variable on the other doc.

I don't have strong feelings here, just wanted to mention it as an option.

Reviewer 2: done

      <th>
        **Alerts (classic) Data Type**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Issues Data Type**

>       </th>

Reviewer: Let's drop these.  For the webhook, they need to be consistent, which means that in many cases these are wrong or at least confusing/misleading  There isn't a good page documenting the Issues model, so it may be worth adding a blurb/section above describing how the Issues aggregate data across all incidents, so most of their attributes are actually lists.

      <th>
        **Issue Variable**

>       </th>

Reviewer: I don't think this is helpful.  It doesn't always relate closely with the template and when it does it's so close they're basically duplicates.  It's not clear to me what the benefit in keeping it is.

      <th>
        **Workflow Template Replacement**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Notes**

>       </th>

Reviewer: What do you think about dropping this and moving the important notes into the replacement cell, like in https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/advanced-alerts/advanced-techniques/customize-your-webhook-payload/#variables.

It seems like it might help make the table more readable.

      </td>
      <td>
        `{{#if policyUrl}}"policy_url": {{json policyUrl}},{{/if}}`
      </td>
      <td>
        The URL link to the first policy
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `runbook_url`
      </td>
      <td>
        `$RUNBOOK_URL`
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
        List
      </td>
      <td>
        `{{accumulations.runbookUrl}}`
      </td>
      <td>
        `{{accumulations.runbookUrl.[0] }}`
      </td>
      <td>
        The first runbook associated to a condition in the issue
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `severity`
      </td>
      <td>
        `$SEVERITY`
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
        `{{priority}}`
      </td>
      <td>
        `{{#eq HIGH priority}}"WARNING"{{else}}{{json priority}}{{/eq}}`
      </td>
      <td>
        An issue has priority, which can have different values than severity
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `targets`
      </td>
      <td>
        `$TARGETS`
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
        List
      </td>
      <td>

>         `accumulations.targetName`

Reviewer: This isn't valid, targets is a large object.

      </td>
      <td>

>         `{{#if accumulations.targetName}}{{json accumulations.targetName.[0]}}{{else if entitiesData.entities}}{{json entitiesData.entities.[0].name}}`

Reviewer: https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/pull/10619/files#diff-16a828c0c5ac0b9f7206c72d6068883a3a8c8d416a139cf3462c6c9e4927448cR878-R887 is the full template for targets

Reviewer 2: I think I fixed this @dneth, would you mind taking a look?

      </td>
      <td>
        the timestamp of the issue creation
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `version`
      </td>
      <td>
        `$VERSION`
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
        `N/A`
      </td>
      <td>
        `"1.0"`
      </td>
      <td>
        There is no matching attribute on the issue level.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `violation_callback_url`
      </td>
      <td>
        `$VIOLATION_CALLBACK_URL`
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
        `{{issuePageUrl}}`
      </td>
      <td>
        `{{issuePageUrl}}`
      </td>
      <td>
        N/A
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `violation_chart_url`
      </td>
      <td>
        `$VIOLATION_CHART_URL`
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
        `{{violationChartUrl}}`
      </td>
      <td>
        `{{violationChartUrl}}`
      </td>
      <td>
        Link to the first violation chart in the issue
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

> ## Alerts (classic) default payload in workflows [#alerts-classic-payload]

Reviewer: This section is basically the same as the previous, but in a different form.  What do you think about starting a CollapserGroup here and just having the Collapser for the Webhook template?  PagerDuty and others can be added later.

The following template maps the issue payload to the payload used by the classic webhook channel. You can use some or all of the dynamic variables, along with any custom variables, to define your own payload.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```
The indentions are still slightly off, will this fix it?

  "owner": {{json owner}},
  "severity": "{{#eq HIGH priority}}WARNING{{else}}{{priority}}{{/eq}}",
  "policy_url": {{json policyUrl}},
  "closed_violations_count_critical": {{closedIncidentsCount}},
  "closed_violations_count_warning": 0,
  "current_state": "{{#if issueClosedAt}}closed{{else if issueAcknowledgedAt}}acknowledged{{else}}open{{/if}}",
  "policy_name": {{json accumulations.policyName.[0]}},
  "incident_url": {{json issuePageUrl}},
  "condition_family_id": {{accumulations.conditionFamilyId.[0]}},
  "incident_acknowledge_url": {{json issueAckUrl}},
  "targets":[
 {

>  "id": "{{#if entitiesData.entities.[0].id}}{{entitiesData.entities.[0].id}}{{else if accumulations.nrqlEventType}}{{accumulations.nrqlEventType.[0]}}{{else}}N/A{{/if}}",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 "id": "{{labels.targetId.[0]}}",
```

"name": "{{#if accumulations.targetName}}{{accumulations.targetName.[0]}}{{else if entitiesData.entities}}{{entitiesData.entities.[0].name}}{{else}}N/A{{/if}}",
"link": "{{issuePageUrl}}",
"product": "{{accumulations.conditionProduct.[0]}}",
"type": "{{#if entitiesData.types.[0]}}{{entitiesData.types.[0]}}{{else}}N/A{{/if}}",
"labels": { {{#each accumulations.rawTag}}{{#if this.[0]}}"{{@key}}":{{json this.[0]}},{{/if}}{{/each}}

> "NewRelic": "targetLabels"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

}
}
 ],
  "version": "1.0",
  "condition_id": {{accumulations.conditionFamilyId.[0]}},
  "duration": {{#if issueDurationMs}}{{issueDurationMs}}{{else}}0{{/if}},
  "account_id": {{nrAccountId}},
  "incident_id": {{#if labels.nrIncidentId}}{{labels.nrIncidentId.[0]}}{{else}}"N/A"{{/if}},
  "issue_id": "{{issueId}}",
  "metadata":{

> {{#if locationStatusesObject}}"location_statuses": {{locationStatusesObject}},{{/if}}
> {{#if accumulations.metadata_entity_type}}"entity.type": {{json accumulations.metadata_entity_type.[0]}},{{/if}}
> {{#if accumulations.metadata_entity_name}}"entity.name": {{json accumulations.metadata_entity_name.[0]}}{{/if}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{#if locationStatusesObject}}"location_statuses": {{locationStatusesObject}},{{/if}}
    {{#if accumulations.metadata_entity_type}}"entity.type": {{json accumulations.metadata_entity_type.[0]}},{{/if}}
    {{#if accumulations.metadata_entity_name}}"entity.name": {{json accumulations.metadata_entity_name.[0]}}{{/if}}
```
convention is to indent nested json.  The same should be done for targets
